Opti sync: elaborate on why sync optimistically (#2958)
ethereum/consensus-specs: sync/optimistic.md

## Design Decision Rationale

### Why sync optimistically?

> Most execution engines use state sync as a default sync mechanism on Ethereum Mainnet 

Reviewer: Block sync also requires a cryptoeconomic head to do reverse header sync and then forward block sync.

I might make this more generic about "execution engine sync methods" needing cryptoeconomic heads to be able to sync independently from the consensus engine

because executing blocks from genesis takes several weeks on commodity hardware.

State sync requires the knowledge of the current head of the chain to converge eventually.
If not constantly fed with the most recent head, state sync won't be able to complete
because the recent state soon becomes unavailable due to state trie pruning.

> Optimistic block import (i.e. import without waiting for a payload to be executed by the engine)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optimistic block import (i.e. import when the execution engine *cannot* currently validate the payload)
```

> breaks a deadlock between the state sync and processing a beacon block by skipping payload
> execution as long as execution engine is syncing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
breaks a deadlock between the execution layer sync process and importing beacon blocks
while the execution engine is syncing.
```

> Optimistic sync works nicely with execution engines using block execution as a default

Reviewer: It not only works nicely but is also requisite (unless CL and EL lockstep execute from genesis

Author: Block sync allows for a different initial sync strategy. CL may send a checkpoint payload to EL and wait until it catches up with this payload then lock-step - but this would be suboptimal. I agree that "nicely" might be too weak word in this context, but optimistic sync is not a requisite for block sync either. Will try to rephrase this statement

Author: Done

Author: @djrtwo waiting for you to take a look at the update of this statement and pushing the button if OK with you

## Design Decision Rationale

### Why sync optimistically?

Most execution engines use state sync as a default sync mechanism on Ethereum Mainnet 
because executing blocks from genesis takes several weeks on commodity hardware.

State sync requires the knowledge of the current head of the chain to converge eventually.
If not constantly fed with the most recent head, state sync won't be able to complete
because the recent state soon becomes unavailable due to state trie pruning.

Optimistic block import (i.e. import when the execution engine *cannot* currently validate the payload)
breaks a deadlock between the execution layer sync process and importing beacon blocks
while the execution engine is syncing.

Optimistic sync is also an optimal strategy for execution engines using block execution as a default
sync mechanism (e.g. Erigon). Alternatively, a consensus engine may inform the execution engine with a payload

> obtained from a checkpoint block, then wait till the execution layer catches up with it and proceed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
obtained from a checkpoint block, then wait until the execution layer catches up with it and proceed
```
